Good morning, everyone,
and thank you for coming to our
first session on the last day
of the developer conference.
I realize it's really early and
appreciate you getting up to join us.
Can I see a show of hands of people
who went to the event last night?
Wow.
That's great.
And you guys still got up this morning.
Awesome.
So our first session today is our
WebObjects Solutions session where
we're showcasing a few of our
developers who we've invited to
come up and share what they've done.
Bob Frazier is actually going to be
your emcee for the session this morning,
so I'll bring up Bob.
So there really are two of us.
We're very pleased to have representation
from four of our customers here.
And they'll each give a
presentation on their technologies
in four different areas and
their experiences with WebObjects.
And we've asked them to give a
little background not only on
the project that they're doing,
but kind of like how
they used WebObjects,
if they made any transitions,
and give us some feedback on
what and why kind of thing.
So I think you'll find
this very interesting.
[Transcript missing]
So are we all powered by
Krispy Kreme this morning?
God,
I was really looking for something else.
Here we go, Krispy Kreme.
So as Bob said, my name is Bob Davis,
and I'm the project manager for
the Collaboratory Project at
Northwestern University.
Let's see if I can get this to change.
There we go.
So here's a picture of our
homepage and our address,
Collaboratory.Nunet.net.
And we sort of joke,
one of the hardest things we ever
have to learn to do is learn,
first of all,
to pronounce "collaboratory,"
and second of all,
to spell it.
And we actually work with
K-12 students and teachers,
so it's kind of tricky sometimes.
So what is the Collaboratory Project?
It's an easy-to-use,
web-based collaborative environment
that teachers use to develop
project-based activities that
are accessible to all students.
So what is the Collaboratory Project?
It's an easy-to-use,
web-based collaborative environment
that teachers use to develop
project-based activities that
are accessible to all students.
So what is the Collaboratory Project?
It's an easy-to-use,
web-based collaborative environment
that teachers use to develop
project-based activities that
are accessible to all students.
that are benchmarked to
Illinois learning standards and goals.
And as I said, this is our home page,
and I welcome you all to come visit us.
It's very simple to navigate.
I'm not going to go
through a lot of it today,
but there's basically five or
six buttons that will lead you to
most of the pertinent information.
If you'd like to go and learn
more about the Collaboratory,
learn how to participate,
learn about some of our communities,
see who our staff is.
And there's actually a
search mechanism there also,
so if you just want to see some of the
projects that teachers have created,
you can go and sort of search by
curricular and grade area and sort
of get a sample of some of the things
without actually creating an account.
And, of course, you can log into the
Collaboratory project.
So just to give you a
little bit of information,
I'm part of the IT organization
at Northwestern University,
and the Collaboratory Project is
really sort of an information
technology outreach into
the Illinois K-12 community.
We help educators learn to
integrate network technologies
into their curriculum,
and it's really a $2.2 million
investment over the course of five years.
Our original funding came from
SBC Ameritech with seed money,
and now we're funded by the
Illinois State Board of Education with
some additional money from SBC and
some help from vendors like Apple and
vendors like Sun who provide hardware
for some of the things that we're doing.
We really like to think of the
things we do as sort of scaffolding.
We're not from the School of Education.
We're part of information technology.
What we do is provide an online
resource for teachers to use.
We don't produce any content.
Everything that's in the
Collaboratory is really things that
have been produced by teachers.
It's a very,
we've been in existence five years,
so it's really a very mature,
sort of well-developed set
of resources and services.
We really sort of attempt to try to
empower teachers and students themselves.
Teachers manage all content.
It's really their responsibility
to approve anything that is
put up on the Internet that
reflects their students' work.
Has to agree with their acceptable
use policies in their schools
and their school districts.
Teachers create all of the
accounts that students use,
manage all of the content.
We don't do anything like that.
So we're really empowering the teachers
to take control of the environment.
The students can access the
Collaboratory at any time.
They can access it in a computer lab.
They can open up their iBooks,
sit down in the hallway and
access the Collaboratory.
They can access it from home.
They can access it at
their grandparents' house,
showing them the things
that they're doing.
So it's really a 24-hour-a-day,
seven-day-a-week,
really easy way to get the students
to access the Collaboratory.
They can access it from home.
They can access it at
their grandparents' house,
showing them the things
that they're doing.
So it's really a 24-hour-a-day,
seven-day-a-week,
really easy way to get the students
to access the Collaboratory.
We're the Collaboratory project,
so that sort of makes sense.
And also, over the course of five years,
we really have developed
an archive of replicable,
sort of model projects that have been
developed by Illinois teachers and
match Illinois learning standards.
Just a few statistics.
We have roughly 662 participating
schools from the state of Illinois.
That sort of represents 122
different school districts.
2,000 or more Illinois teachers have
developed projects and worked with us.
There's over 4,000 different
projects and resources,
and I'll explain that a little
bit more what that means.
And we've had over 50,000 logins into the
Collaboratory project in the last year,
and that's not browsing our website.
That's actually students and teachers
doing work in the Collaboratory.
So here's our login page.
Very simple designs.
Once you log in,
I'm going to spend a few minutes
sort of showing you some of the
aspects of the Collaboratory,
like alerts and interests,
the communication services that are
integrated across all of the communities,
what we call projects and activities,
the various resources that teachers
use to work with those activities,
our online e-courses
that we've developed,
and our whole volunteers, ask an expert,
sort of knowledge-based
system that we've developed.
And all this has been developed
in WebObjects over the
course of the last two years.
So when a teacher or student logs in,
they basically come to what
we call their headlines page.
The headlines page is
customizable so that they can
be receiving some up-to-date
information whenever they log in,
and they can sort of set the time frame
that they want to be aware of things
that are happening in the collaboratory.
So in this example, we're seeing some,
when a student logs in,
they can see any sort of announcements
that the collaboratory might
like to make them aware of.
They can see if they have any alerts.
If they're a teacher and any
content has been added to any
project that they've been managed,
they get various alerts and
links that they can directly
go and manage that content,
approve it, edit it, delete it,
whatever is important for them to do.
They also get sort of tickled.
They get tickled about if
they have any messages.
Those messages can be
from their students.
It can be messages from other teachers.
It can be messages from any
collaboratory participant.
They also can see if they
have any invitations.
Invitations can be sent out by
teachers to other teachers and
students to participate in shared
projects that they might have.
You also get links to
your project calendar.
So if you're a student,
you can see exactly if there's
anything happening currently.
If there's anything happening today
or this week or in the coming month.
And finally,
you can see if there's any new
interests that may have occurred.
And interests are things that you're
interested in the collaboratory.
You sort of fill out a profile.
And anything new that's been
created in the collaboratory
in whatever time frame you set,
you then get direct links to it.
So if you're interested in math,
if you're interested in science,
or if you're interested in haiku poetry,
you can attempt to sort of
keep in contact with all of
the things that are happening.
There's also search mechanisms
where you can go directly to it.
So we have an integrated
set of internal messaging,
very similar in a lot of ways to email,
but it's purely internal for
collaboratory participants.
Anybody who knows email would
feel quite comfortable using this.
We have a set of project-based calendars,
so any project that a
student is involved with,
they'll have a calendar for it.
And actually, students use this as
sort of their jump point,
generally.
When they log in,
quite often they'll check their messages,
go look at their calendar,
see if they have any activities
or events occurring on that day.
We also have an online discussion room,
chats that students and teachers can use.
We have threaded discussion forums that
can be integrated with any project.
The Collaboratory project is really,
the main focal point
is a curriculum unit,
a project that a teacher creates.
This is some examples of screens
of sort of forms-based screens,
how a teacher would create a project.
Each project can have
a series of activities.
These activities are all linked to
resources that we've created and are all
aligned with Illinois learning standards.
And here's some examples
of the interface we built.
So we've actually taken all of the
Illinois learning standards and put
them in our own database and can,
through a very nice, easy interface,
link them directly to any activities
that the teachers are doing.
This is really important.
I know probably a lot of you aren't
sort of involved in education right now,
but this is very important
in K-12 education.
You're sort of teaching to the
standards in a lot of states,
so it's very important
to be able to do that.
So I'm going to show you very
quickly sort of our four core
resources that have been built.
It's called the Cybrary, MediaSpace,
Internet Book Club,
and the Survey Studio.
So the first one I want to show is an
example of a cyber force that a teacher
developed called Robots and Robotics,
sort of a typical curriculum
unit you might have.
A cyber is an online library of
internet resources or internet URLs that
are pre-searched and customized
for a particular curriculum unit.
So a teacher can create a
cyber for a curriculum unit,
can create categories under that cyber,
and under those categories there can be a
whole series of links that a student can
click on and go off onto the internet.
The cyber is available for any student
who has access to that project.
The cyber can also be used
by other teachers in their
projects that they develop.
This is an example of
what we call media space,
physics, AP thermal dynamics.
This is just a very simple place for
students to publish on the internet.
It can have text, graphics, sound,
and video incorporated into it.
This is something called
the Internet Book Club,
and it's exactly like it sounds.
Students can post book reviews,
original compositions, original essays,
share and collaborate
with other students.
And I always throw this
one up for shock value,
roadkill monitoring.
This is a real project,
sort of environmental
science project in Illinois,
and I won't get into
the gory details of it,
but what they're using
here is our survey studio,
which is an online way
to do data collection,
pre and post testing.
It's all browser-based.
Data can be displayed in pie charts and
bar charts and various other graphics.
charts and various other graphs.
We also have developed a whole
series of online e-courses.
As we started to extend into
throughout the state of Illinois,
we couldn't really go out and
do workshops for everybody,
so we've moved all of
our workshops online.
We wrote our own interface
in order to do this.
And we really very heavily use
volunteers who man our ask an expert
system and sort of man our knowledge
base and help out in the discussion
rooms and conference centers.
So, some specifics.
That should give you
some idea of what we do.
We've been doing this for a little
more than two and a half years now.
We've been using WebObjects.
We're at WebObjects 5.0.
Our deployment is on a Sun server,
which is an educational system.
We're running an
educational grant from Sun.
It's an E250, and we're running Apache.
Our development is all
still done on Windows 2000,
because it's sort of legacy systems,
although we're really
hoping now to move to OS X.
Our database is Microsoft SQL Server.
Our database servers are all Dell,
and right now we're using
JTurbo JDBC drivers.
Our web server is IIS.
And we're basically using CVS.
Our web server is our
version control system.
And we, at any given time, we have, oh,
seven to ten developers,
both full and part time.
Four full time staff and then
a whole series of Northwestern
University students are involved in it.
This is our staff here.
And I don't know if any of you
are on the Omni group list,
but Jonathan Rockind is one
of our lead programmers.
He's a very heavy contributor.
Unique problems solved.
We really feel like we sort of
know the directions we're going,
and we can really start to reap the
benefits of object-oriented programming.
So we've tried to develop a whole
series of what we loosely call learning
media and display objects that really
form the core basis of all of our
next generation of applications that
we're writing for the Collaboratory.
Learning objects,
loosely we describe as things like
objects that allow for reflection,
assessment, annotation, pure critiquing,
focused feedback,
things like that that really allow
for enhanced collaboration with the
work that students are putting up.
Media objects are sort
of just like they sound,
ways of displaying various media types.
And then display objects that
really just give us consistent
ways for interface design,
layout, navigation.
Sequencing.
Here's an example of one of
our new applications that we're
writing called the ePortfolio.
A student might have a project
that they wish to publish.
They would pick a display component,
display object from a series of
things that we make available.
They can then upload content in there.
That content can be any media type,
can be text, graphics, sound, video,
PDFs, URL links, anything like that.
Each of this is divided up into various
components and sort of interchangeable.
All of these are reusable components
that we can plug into all of our
next generation of applications.
Sort of up at the top,
you can kind of see a
little icon for F and D.
Those stand for our discussion forum.
So at any point,
any of these objects can have feedback
and critiques and reflection added to it.
That might be a discussion forum.
It might be a chat room.
It could even be a cybery
that might be added to it.
As far as reusability,
all of our accounts, groups,
authentication, and permissions can all
be reused very easily.
We have our set of core learning
media and display objects.
All our JavaScript and style sheet
components are completely reusable.
We've developed a whole series of
interface widgets that give all of
our applications a real consistent
look and feel to the interface design.
So, we're expecting to grow to
over 100,000 accounts in 2003.
We plan to add additional WebObjects
servers and load balancing as needed.
We'll be upgrading to
Microsoft SQL Server 2000 and
upgrading our QuickTime servers to
handle the increase in QuickTime that
we see happening in K-12 schools.
So, I'll sort of stop here.
Again, this is our website here.
And I just,
one point that I didn't mention
is that all of the services,
because we're sponsored by the
Illinois State Board of Education,
all of the services,
the Collaboratory is completely free
to potentially over 2 million students
and teachers in the state of Illinois.
And I don't think we could
ever begin to attempt to,
you know, handle that scalability.
We're scaling up without having
something with the rapid deployment
capabilities of WebObjects.
So, thank you very much.
Thank you very much
for that presentation.
It's just really nice to see
something that has both simplicity
and also in terms of being,
you know,
the students and the teachers can use it.
I think it's really interesting
that it can empower them to
navigate the whole thing.
Nice usability and everything.
And we're not going to have
Q&A on individual sessions
or individual speakers.
What we're going to do is at the end,
I'm sure that, you know,
a lot of people probably want to network
and have some specific questions on
maybe what they did or how they did it.
So we're going to have people
kind of over on the side here.
I'd like to introduce our next speaker,
Matt Firlik from PowerSchool.
Thank you.
As Bob said, I'm a WebObjects engineer
from PowerSchool.
Just to begin,
can I see a show of hands of
people who have either seen,
used, or heard about PowerSchool?
Not counting the people that work here.
Okay, thank you.
A little bit about what is PowerSchool.
A little over a year ago,
Apple purchased PowerSchool.
It's a company based up in
the Sacramento area in Folsom.
In their four-year tenure as a
software development company,
they've been working on a
student information system,
sometimes shortened to SIS,
to work with K-12 districts to
manage all their information,
assets, and the like about the mechanics
of actually being a school system.
Now, as a division of Apple,
we're actually continuing to develop
this application and add it to the
education resources that Apple provides.
To talk about why we're using WebObjects,
we need to go back and talk about
the beginning of PowerSchool
and the incipients when
PowerSchool became a company.
The application was developed by
a very small group of developers,
a very small team, using 4D.
They developed a web-based application
to implement different administrative
functionalities and pieces for
student information systems.
As the popularity grew and they
had more and more customers
come into the application,
they started to increase the volume in
the application and started to scale
up the number of users and access and
information the application provided.
It reached a functional limit
at some point of about 7,500
users with the maximum capacity,
based partially on the tool,
the fact the database is in memory,
some other limitations.
As the application did
become more and more popular,
we started to see different metrics
on how the application could be used
and where it was actually applicable.
It's interesting to note that 80%
of the school districts across the
United States fall into the category
of being around 7,500 students.
The interesting metric therein, though,
is that that represents only about 20%
of the students in the United States.
So as the application became
more and more popular,
it became increasingly more important
to target a larger audience,
the other 80% of those
students that were out there.
To do so,
We needed a tool to do so,
and that's why we're here.
As the use of WebObjects
allowed the application to
scale to a larger set of users,
giving us a feasibility to
attract larger audiences,
larger sets of schools,
provide larger functionality
to migrate the application
to better serve their needs.
So the application we're going
to talk about today is the
PowerSchool Enterprise version,
which is written in WebObjects.
The application, you may think,
power school.
Obviously teachers and students.
But there are large constituents,
audiences that we need to
handle and a various number of
users that we need to address.
Students and parents make up the
largest audience for the application.
Obviously parents and students are
going to want to go on and look
at information about the student,
about the curriculum,
about the events at the school.
Being the largest audience though,
they represent the smallest amount
of functionality for our application.
Information is typically relegated
to either the school district or the
school or the individual student.
So our largest user base is
actually the lowest amount of
functionality for us to implement.
At a more moderate level
is teachers and staff.
Information like grades and the like,
which we'll go into in a little bit,
represents a moderate
amount of functionality.
There are more teachers, pardon me,
less teachers,
but it's actually more functionality.
We need to start talking
about aggregate information.
We need to start talking about
aggregate information of students,
grades per classes,
looking at class information,
comparisons, looking at information
across whole semesters.
So while it's a fewer number of users,
it's actually a larger amount of
information that we need to manage.
Additionally though is administrators.
Administrators represent the smallest
audience for the application.
Typically a very few
administrators per district,
but it's actually the largest
feature set we need to implement.
Information about aggregate
sets across an entire district,
looking at grades for an
entire school district.
So the application needs
to handle disparate users,
disparate types of users,
and disparate pieces of functionality.
There's actually a lot of
overlap between what teachers
and parents and students can do,
teachers and administrators can do.
So we needed to find a
way to bridge the gap,
not only lots of different users,
but how to span lots of
different functionalities,
even overlapping across
the large set of users.
Parents and students typically
use the PowerSchool application
in ways to foster communication.
We give them the ability to look
at real-time status information,
grades for the student,
personal calendars for the events going
on that are important to the students,
also future assignments that
the teachers can put in.
This information is extremely valuable.
Obviously,
it's important to the students to
know exactly how they're doing in
their classes on a daily basis.
It's also important for
the parents to know that.
Sometimes, I think we all know that notes
can get lost in backpacks or
someone can say they did well on
a grade and not necessarily do so.
The development of this kind of
communication between parents,
students,
and teachers in a way that's actually,
in some ways, unavoidable.
That a student can always see
their current information,
parents can always see
and it allows a way for them to interact.
So students are no longer trying to forge
signatures on notes to their parents.
They're probably just trying
to hack their passwords,
but it's a little bit different
problems we have these days.
.
Teachers use the application
for information access,
providing them a way to look at all the
information about their classes and all
the information about their students.
Important is a two-way communication
with the information system,
the ability for them to put in
information from grades to students to
calendars and schedules into the system,
but also see that information reflected
out instantaneously on how their
students are doing across a particular
schedule per semester by term.
Ease of information is
extremely important to them.
When you start looking at the
old school way of doing things
with grading books and having to
summarize and tally up grades,
we provide them an easy way
to look at this information.
We also provide an easy way
to look at the information
regardless of their location.
The ability to look at this information
and input it in the classroom if you
have time or wait until later to go
home and look at the information gives
them the ability to span their work
accordingly and work from any location.
Administrators probably reap the most
benefit of the centralized administration
and information that we provide.
The WebObjects application,
centrally located,
gives us the ability to provide secure
access to real-time information.
As teachers are putting in grades,
they can start to see how the
grade point average is looking
for the entire district.
Giving the ability to manage
the large sets of information,
looking at the student population
in larger sets or in larger chunks.
And also provide
mechanisms for reporting.
Reporting is an extremely valuable and
important tool for school districts.
Reporting is a way that they get
funding of being able to report to state
institutions and educational institutions
on how the schools are doing,
what the schools are doing,
particular events as such.
So the application gives the
administrators the ability to
look at large-scale pieces of
information and use it accordingly.
[Transcript missing]
The second is data validation.
We have lots of data.
Lots and lots and lots and lots of data.
And the problem is figuring out
how to take that data and make it
useful to all of our customers.
Not every customer uses all of our data.
Lots of customers have
more data than others.
And we need to find a way to
not only manage that data,
but validate that data
with different rule sets,
different kinds of security measures
to accommodate for each one of
our particular types of users.
So the EOF and the ability to
model our data differently based
on particular applications,
based on particular users,
using the user info information
in the model to store particular
information on validation,
gives us the ability to encompass
validation in a way that would
not be possible otherwise.
As mentioned before,
state reporting is an extremely
valuable tool and an extremely large
requirement for all of our users.
Implementing something on
top of the object model,
there are a number of
tools out there to do so.
We've actually implemented a
state reporting system that uses
an XSLT template using Apache's
FOP formatting objects implementation
to generate PDFs on the fly,
generate, in some cases,
ad hoc reports of different
kinds of queries and information
that we need to show,
giving users the ability
to take custom data sets,
custom information,
and generate reports for
their particular institution,
which is extremely valuable.
We have a number of different external
systems we need to integrate with.
As I've spoken before,
we have a scheduling engine that
we need to integrate with to do
a large amount of scheduling.
And by no means is scheduling
an easy thing when you consider
different kinds of students,
different kinds of class schedules,
different kinds of courses
that need to be implemented.
We also have external systems
for state-required things
like CSIS to integrate with,
the ability to take aggregate sets
of our information and shuttle it
off to other systems for information,
use their system to pull
information into our application.
Multi-platform support is extremely
important when you consider
that what we're working on is
a shrink-wrapped application.
It's an application that we need
to deliver to these users to
install in their environment and
customize in their environment.
So the ability to use
different kinds of platforms,
different kinds of
installations of web servers,
databases, architecture platforms,
gives us the ability to span
this to multiple kinds of users,
multiple installations,
without changing our install base,
without changing our code to handle
the different kinds of users.
But the flexibility truly comes when
we start talking about a shrink-wrapped
application that you need to customize.
We can't assume that every single school
district does things in the same way.
So by doing things in frameworks,
by doing things in components,
by remembering that we need to put in
hooks and delegates in certain places
to provide custom functionality,
we can create an application
that has a core set that you
can customize based on the user,
based on the implementation,
to use the core set of features,
but also do exactly what they need.
Typical deployment of PowerSchool
takes one of two forms right now.
Typically,
they'd look at something like an
IIS on a Windows machine running
SQL Server or a hybrid installation
running Apache on Oracle and Solaris.
An example of deployments
that we try and target,
a typical district of 20,000 students
is one of our types of customers,
but we also do statewide deployments,
something where you span
multiple districts or all the
districts in an entire district,
I'm pardoning, district in the state,
to bring all their information together.
But we also target the other side,
which is a single school in a
district with over 200,000 students.
So our application varies on
implementation size based on the
particular customer that we're targeting.
The application was developed
initially in WebObjects 4,
and it's been moved up
to the latest version,
5.5.1.
It was done all in Java,
so there was no porting from Objective-C.
Development is all done on
Project Builder on Mac OS X.
We have about 25 developers
at any one time working with
revision control through Perforce,
and our database of choice
internally would be Oracle.
We spoke about how we broke up the
applications and functional pieces.
We also break up our
development in that way.
We have functional teams
developing the applications,
specific applications for
particular types of users,
but we also have a team of developers
working on core frameworks based
on solutions or utilities so
that they can look at the large
scope of the application and start
developing classes and different
implementations as the need arises.
We also have back-end database engineers,
in particular engineers for scheduling,
that can focus on those systems
and provide us the ability
to seamlessly integrate that.
But in addition to our development teams,
we also have a bunch of
teams working with us,
from marketing and analysis,
going out and getting the
large binders of requirements
that we all know and love,
to go ahead and figure out
how to implement those.
We have full teams of quality
assurance and tech pubs to go
and validate what we're doing and
tell us we're not doing it right,
but also to document what we're doing and
provide that functionality to our users.
And we also have full
implementation and training,
is that once we take
this application out,
we have engineers that know
about Waylogic's deployment,
how to take this application out,
ship it to customers,
and work in their particular
environments and make it work.
Up next for PowerSchool is working
on our interface usability as we
have more and more customers in
larger applications trying to make
the UI work a little bit better,
find better ways to interface,
provide that functionality
to our particular users.
Also looking into
deployments all on Mac OS X.
Find a way to do a single server
installation running on Mac OS X database
web server in the whole nine yards.
And features, features, features,
as everyone knows and loves.
So that's just a little
bit about PowerSchool.
If you want to find more
about the application,
there is a website.
abl.com/powerschool,
which talks about the application
and the things we provide.
Thank you.
Thank you, Matt.
Great example of also showing sort of
the engineering process behind that and
kind of like how you can leverage off of
the ability of the separation of function
that WebObjects gives you and then
represent that sort of organizationally.
Also another good example,
you can see how in both of these
education examples how the state
requirements and reporting and things
start creeping into your requirements.
So I would like to
introduce our next speaker,
Thomas Lehmann,
who will tell us about Deutsche Bank and
their online banking application system.
Okay, let's begin.
Okay, a little introduction
about Deutsche Bank 24.
It's a subsidiary of Deutsche Bank.
I think it's one of the five
largest banks in the world.
And Deutsche Bank 24 has 2 million
customers using our web application.
This web application is
built with WebObjects.
Since 1986 we have an applet
solution and then we moved in 1998 to
WebObjects 3.5 and program in Java.
So let's have a look
at what it looks like.
Okay, this login page,
you have to provide
your account number and
[Transcript missing]
And as you can see, the web pages are
working on Mac OS X too,
not only on Windows.
We even provide Linux as
a user interface.
And we are able,
with the same application,
to provide a different user interface,
like here.
And again,
you can see the asset overview.
Okay, which problems have we solved?
In our environment,
we have a legacy system
we have to talk to,
and this is done by
COBRA-based middleware.
And so we have to program some
classes to use COBRA easily.
Then we have business objects.
These are based on the IDL definitions
of objects in the COBRA layer.
And so it's easy to transport data from
our application to the legacy systems.
We have built a navigation concept.
It's just a concept because you have
to program a lot for a new application.
We have programmer rules
that makes life easier.
Then we are able to
Provide multi-language
support and multi-layout.
Multi-layout you have seen and
multi-language we are able to,
in addition to the German language,
our English language,
but there are business cases we have
to provide a right and correct text,
and so it's a very complicated process.
Okay, and we are able to,
using a chip called link automation,
authentication with our application
instead of the account number and
PIN we provide in the login page.
And that's done with an applet,
with a faceless applet and
live connect in a web browser.
And then, that's the great impact
on our application.
We can handle heavy load.
Okay, so what we are using to
build these applications,
we have WebObjects for sure,
and on Win2K,
we have a CVS server on Ulnux.
We have an Oracle database,
and we've stored our
little data over JDPC.
We have the homegrown middleware
for the enterprise application
integration for the legacy systems.
And our test environment is on Solaris,
and we have an SSL Apache web
server on Linux.
Okay, we're up to five developers.
It's a small team.
They are fast enough to make
changes and build the application.
So what can we use in other applications?
We have built a component framework,
a visual component framework that takes
Input fields with generic input
validation we can provide on
these input fields error messages
right by these input fields.
Okay, then formatted currency
values and selection lists
are configured by XML data.
And again, the navigation concept,
two parts in this.
We can configure the logic
in the navigation with XML,
and how does it look like is done
in a component with HTML text.
Okay,
and then we have core implementation,
what we think should,
and every bank likes account and
securities and something like that.
And this is done,
we have used this in three other banks,
and it works very fine.
Okay, now scalability.
That's a very important thing here.
We have two Sun-E 10,000 machines
running WebObjects instances.
We have 480 instances.
The writing time of these slides are
150,000 customers logged in every day,
but now it's about 200,000.
The maximum we measured
in the past are 400,000.
The customers logging in
every day on this special day.
Okay, and then, okay,
web server's handling 11.5
million HTTP requests,
so it's 25 gigabytes of net traffic.
Okay, architecture,
it's like every WebObjects
deployment environment.
We have a web server,
we have an application server,
and we have, for us, they are legacy
Okay, in the middle is the ETN.
There are the two ETN-K boxes and with
the WebObject instances in the middle
there and four different legacy systems.
So we have moved from
WebObjects 4.5 to WebObjects 5.
And we have a lot of
performance enhancements here.
And you can see we have a
stress testing one hour.
And the blue line is the WebObjects 4.5.
There is a lot of CPU usage
in 4.5 and in WebObjects 5.0.
You have a little usage of the
CPU with the same task pace.
and Tex Hule.
We have significantly more
performance with WebObjects 5.
It's in real life.
We have 200% faster application.
We have a very small CPU workload
you have seen on the slide before
and have improved availability and
reliability of the application.
In 4.5 they have many problems
to provide a reliable system.
WebObjects 5 is much easier to do this.
Okay, and then the conclusion we have,
with the same hardware we can serve five
times more customers with WebObjects 5.
So what have we to do to move
from Folder 5 to WebObjects 5?
There are scripts provided from
Apple to do the conversion,
and they solve 90% of the issues.
We have a little problem with
Log4j because it's for JDK 1.1.
There's another Log4j version,
and they have changed a lot
of things in Log4j for JDK 2.
We have to do these changes,
and because we're using
Log4j for logging,
we have a lot of things to
do in the whole application.
We have no problems with
the chip card communication.
It's a little bit surprising for us,
but it works again.
I think that should be done here.
Thank you very much
for that presentation.
I am very,
very pleased to have Deutsche Bank as
an enterprise customer,
somebody out there who is really,
really pushing very,
very hard on WebObjects besides,
you know,
we always talk about the Apple Store.
It's very nice to have somebody else out
there who is really pushing the edge.
And my other favorite slide is the
guy by moving from Java on 4.5.1
to Java on 5 that they were able
to take care of four times as many
customers with the same hardware.
So I want to thank the
WebObjects team for doing that.
And I want to thank
Deutsche Bank for giving us that
information and that feedback.
That's great.
Our next application and our
next speaker is Michael Buening,
and he is with Weblecon,
and a very interesting application
in personal information management.
I think you'll enjoy this.
Thanks Bob.
Hi everybody,
thanks for coming out this morning.
My name is Michael Buening
from Baplikon Technologies.
Baplikon Technologies is a
software development company.
We are located in Berlin,
the one in Germany.
We were founded in summer
2000 and we specialized in
personal information management.
That's what I'd like to
present to you today.
It's a Weblicon PIM,
Personal Information Manager,
intended to be used by
telecommunication companies,
portals, or corporates.
It's a fully-featured organizer that
lets you manage your address book,
your calendar, your to-dos,
as well as your emails, SMS, or MMS.
Let me just quickly explain SMS/MMS,
just in case you're
not familiar with that.
SMS means short messaging service.
It lets you send messages up to 140
characters to GSM mobile phones.
It's very popular in Europe.
I think at the end of last year
we had an amount of 150 million
messages sent over the GSM networks.
It's probably much more by now.
MMS means multimedia messaging service.
It's a new upcoming standard
for mobile messaging.
It's also a new standard for sending
multimedia content to mobile phones.
The Weblicon organizer lets you do that,
and it's done using Apple's
outstanding WebObjects framework.
We started developing using WebObjects
4.5 and moved to 4.5 this year.
How is it done?
Let me show you the basic architecture.
So you can access server data
from your PC or preferably a Mac.
or your mobile GSM phone
using six different clients.
Let me introduce the clients to you.
The first one will be HTML,
just a web browser.
We do not use JavaScript or
cascading style sheets.
Just plain HTML 3.2,
so virtually every web browser will do.
The second one is the Java Client.
It's a highly interactive
Java swing desktop application using
WebObjects Java Client technology.
So, third one, SyncML.
SyncML is a protocol for synchronizing
data between different devices.
The WebLicense Server is SyncML certified
by the SyncML organization,
and you can synchronize your
data on your PC with server data
using our native clients for
Outlook on Windows or Windows CE,
or using a palm conduit for your PDA.
Or you use SyncML-capable GSM phone
like the Nokia Communicator
or the Ericsson T68.
So, the first client is WML.
WML means Wireless Markup Language.
So,
any warp capable gsm phone uh... will do
The fifth one is Voice XML.
It's even more simple.
All you need is a phone
and you can dial a service.
For example, your latest email will
be announced to you.
Last but not least, J2ME.
It's a Java midlet running
on J2ME-capable devices like
the latest mobile phones.
We have a server application
running for each client.
That's the yellow layer.
Usually,
each server application uses a couple
of frameworks that will provide the
user interface for the certain tasks,
like address book, calendar, and so on.
And we have shared frameworks,
shared between those server applications,
that will provide data.
So database access is done
transparently using EOF,
which is represented by the yellow layer.
Actually, there's one layer missing
because the standard architecture
diagram has only five layers.
There should be a layer between those
shared frameworks and the EOF containing
our business logic and our foundation
frameworks and utility frameworks.
So as I said, database access uses EOF,
which means all the
data is handled as EO,
Enterprise Objects,
inside the applications,
even messaging information.
So what databases can you use?
First is LDAP for storing
user or contact information.
We are using JNDI to access
the directory servers,
and we tested against OpenLDAP,
the Netscape directory server,
and the Critical Path directory server.
At BMS databases,
Well, you can use any database you
have an adapter or driver for.
So we're using JDBC adapter for Oracle,
FrontBase, or OpenBase.
And you can switch between
LDAP and RDBMS as data store
for contact or user information.
And the third one is not that usual,
I think.
We're using an IMAP server as
a data store for ERF to store
our messaging information.
Therefore, we implemented an object store
using some Java mail package
that connects to the IMAP server.
So let's have a closer view of
how client requests are handled
and responses are generated.
For standard browser requests,
we use WebObjects.
You probably know about that.
But we have two additional
frameworks that are used by
the other server applications.
The WML server application
uses WAP objects.
It's a framework that handles
requests coming from a WAP browser
and generates WML responses.
We acquired the code and
adapted and ported it.
It's pretty much the same with VoiceXML.
It uses a VoiceXML objects framework.
It's a plug-in to WebObjects as
well as a WAP objects framework.
VoiceXML objects was developed
by Vaplicon and handles requests
from a VoiceXML browser,
generates VoiceXML responses.
So again, you have the different
server applications and the
shared framework layer there.
So that's how it's done, basically.
Let's have a look at how it looks like.
I've got some screenshots for you.
So, first of all,
let me mention we have a common
design pattern for HTML applications.
You have a list of modules,
which represent the address book or the
calendar or messaging on the left hand,
and you have a toolbar on top,
which provides basic
functionality like saving changes,
creating new objects, deleting them,
switching between views,
or browsing through data.
So, this one is the address book.
It shows you a sortable
list of your contacts.
They're sortable by columns.
You have full content search
capability at the upper right corner.
And you can group your contacts.
The contacts group,
the lowest entry in the
list is a contact group.
It's quite convenient when sending
messages to a bunch of people.
I'll come to that later.
Next one.
It shows the contact editor.
You can browse through your
contacts by using previous and
next buttons in the toolbar.
And you can have multiple
communication data entries.
You're not limited to just
having one fax number,
because you just have one field for it.
You can have as many as you want.
This one shows the messaging module,
again a toolbar at the top.
On the left hand you have a
hierarchical view of your mailboxes.
You can add one, rename them, sort them.
On the right hand you have a sortable
list of your messages showing your
emails or your SMS in one list.
Below that you see the content
of the selected message.
You can file those messages
into your mailboxes by using
the small arrows there.
This one actually goes
down to the IMAP server,
so if you use any other
IMAP client like Outlook,
you will see exactly the
same structures there.
This one is the email editor
subject to CCBCC text.
You can
Add and upload attachments,
like any other email client.
Any of that list on the right
hand that lets you find and add
addresses from your address book.
It's pretty convenient to
pick a contact group there,
then the message will be sent
to all the members of the group.
This is Calendar,
showing all your appointments that month.
You have an overview calendar
on the right hand that lets
you quickly access months,
weeks, and days.
The calendar week view.
Let me mention that the WebDecon
pyramid is fully localized.
We are currently
supporting six languages.
And it's fully customizable
in look and feel,
as you will see in the next slide.
This is a week view again,
but this time of a different skin,
as we call it.
You can switch skins on the
fly and it's pretty easy to
add skins to the application.
You don't have to recompile,
you just put the web server resources
in the right place and you edit the
configuration file and you restart
the application and you're done.
This one is the SMS editor,
again with the custom skin.
This time it's for KPN Mobile,
the biggest Dutch mobile phone provider.
This one is live on the
website since May of last year.
Notice it's a Dutch localization.
It's basically used for
group SMS sending there.
So this is how it looks like
if you access it using a mobile
phone with a web browser.
On top you see the main menu.
The one below shows the day view
of two appointments that day.
Again, WML server.
It's your address book main view.
Again, you have full content
search capability there.
The one below shows you your mailboxes,
so you can check your mail on
the road using your mobile phone.
So this one looks pretty
much like the HTML calendar,
but it's not.
It's the Java client,
Java swing desktop application using
WebObjects to Java client technology.
And it features almost everything
you know from desktop applications
like multiple selection and
drag and drop and so on.
So, I have no screenshot for
VoiceXML application for obvious reasons.
That means I'm through with my slides.
If you want further information,
go to webdicon.com.
[Transcript missing]
Wow.
That's a really outstanding example
of showing how you can really push the
presentation layer with WebObjects and,
in fact, adding like three different
clients and it looked like another
adapter getting stuff in from IMAP.
So there's really taking WebObjects
pretty far and really delivering
something to the end user where
they have accessibility to data
from anything they can pick up.
I think we should, you know,
make them do a client for
the iPod or something?
Okay,
and the URL for signing up for the beta.
And one thing I will mention is even if
you were in one of our previous betas,
it's very important that you
sign up again because we're
starting over on the list.
So even if you were in a previous beta,
please do go to this URL and sign up.
Last chance for the lab.
And please do come back
for the feedback session.
That should be a rousing session.
Who to contact?